So how the people actually go
about addressing these issues?
So [COUGH] there variety of different
things that you can do kind
of the simplest is just to take your
best and worst performances in the job.
And compare them on a variety
of characteristics to see which
characteristics are best
predict performance.
As you do that, one of the things
I do think you wanna do is
what we call test
the statistical significance.
Again, please think about taking a course,
an introductory course in statistics.
These tests for statistical significance
are basically trying to see,
you know, is this a big difference or
could this just be explained by the fact
there's random variation in any data.
So there's kind of the very basic.
I think better than that is to try and
be a bit more systematic
about who you compare.
So, for example, like I said, we expect
the time somebody has been in the job to
have a big effect on their performance.
So you want to compare people who've had
similar amounts of time in the job and
look at what characteristics
shape who's a better and
worse performer within that cohort.
Also try and just look at people
who are on the same job together.
Even better than that, and I think what
most organizations would look to do will
be what we call multivariate regressions.
I'm not sure how many of you
know much about this, so
I'm just gonna give a very
brief conceptual introduction.
It's something you can't
actually do in Excel.
If you Google it there bunch for
other statistical packages.
It's very useful for this kinds of.
So the basic idea of what it's doing is,
if you plot out your data set,
so, plot out,
see here y would be performance,
x could be for example GPA.
And so each dot is a person right, and
you've got on the one hand their GPA,
on the other hand their performance.
And you get the kind of
the scatter plot like this.
And you want to understand,
is there a relationship,
how much does a higher GPA
actually predict performance?
Conceptually, what multivariate
regression is doing
is it's just finding the best
fit line through this data.
The line that you would draw that
really summarizes this relationship.
And it has three very nice
characteristics for doing this work.
Okay the first is usually it
doesn't do this graphically, but
it spits out an equation that
looks something like this.
So here maybe performance
is 3.2 on average,
plus .2 times whatever the GPA is.
So it gives you a way to quantify
the effect of this variable.
The second thing that's nice about this is
that it also tells you the level
of statistical significance.
So is this really just a gap, if we throw
a bunch of dots at a piece of paper,
we're gonna be able to
draw some line through it.
You know, is that what's going on here or
does there really look like
there's a relationship?
The third reason the multivariate
regression is useful,
particularly in this context, is you can
have multiple different x-variables.
So, I'm not going to try and
draw what this would look like
in multidimensional space.
I really don't have that artistic talent.
But you could imagine,
you know you don't just have GPA.
Maybe you have their level of related
work experience, and maybe you have
how well they rated on a job knowledge
test, and various other things.
And you want to try and
disentangle how each of these
variables shapes performance.
That's what the regression will do, will
kind of draw this best-fit line through
this multidimensional space, and you'll
end with something that looks like this,
where it tells you okay,
has an effect on GPA.
So GPA affects performance, in addition so
does experience and so
does the job launch test.
And this is how much.
And so
it's that ability to untangle multiple
different things we know about people.
Figure out which of those have
the strongest effect on performance and
which of them doesn't
really matter very much.
Where regression is really very strong.
And so I think that's probably the way
that most people if they had the time
would go about doing this.
Probably best practice would be also to
try and think a little bit about this
selection process that we're not looking
at what this relationship looks like in
all of the people that applied, but only
the ones that we actually try to hire.
This is quite challenging cuz obviously
you don't have the performance data
on all of the people that you didn't hire.
There are various statistical techniques
for actually correcting the sample, so
you can correct for that.
You can also potentially correct for
the fact that not everybody stays, and so
the sample of people for
whom you have this data is also selected
on the other side by who's left.
So there are things like Heckman selection
corrections that do this for you.
They're quite sophisticated.
You want to take your advanced
statistics course for that, and
they also have a number of problems in
terms of they're kind of quite sensitive
to some of the statistical properties.
So most cases I think people will
stick with multivariate regression.
I think a question that a lot of people
are interested in as they do this is,
okay so we're kind of thinking we're gonna
use an algorithm to give us a sense of
who to hire.
Really, we're gonna let
a computer tell us?
Surely, we should have
a better sense of this.
How good are these algorithms?
So, there's some bad news here.
So, the bad news is these algorithms
are very far from perfect.
The combination of various
effective means, work samples,
cognitive ability tests, all these
sorts of things, most cases probably
don't predict more than about 30 or
40% of the variation in performance.
So we're not that good
at really identifying
who's gonna be your best performer.
That's the bad news.
The worse news is that they're
probably still better than people are.
There was a very nice study done by Mitch
Hoffman at the University of Toronto and
some colleagues where he looked at
data on hiring into call centers.
So I mentioned earlier attrition is
often one of the things that you're
worried about.
You're really worried about that in a call
center because most of these call center
will take one, two, three,
four weeks to train people before
they ever let them answer the phone.
And then turnover is very high, a lot of
people leave after three, six months,
something like that, and
so it's hugely costly.
And so being able to drive down
turnover is a big influence on cost, so
it's one of the things they
really screen for heavily.
There are a number of vendors
that help them with this, and so
Mitch had data that looked at
how these performance screens,
which are algorithmic.
We give you a bunch of tests and
then we spit out a score,
how they did with predicting turnover.
And so in particular what these screens
do is they just advise the manager,
they say this person is a good risk.
This person's a poor risk.
We found a couple of things.
Firstly, when companies adopted
these screening techniques,
then their turn over dropped.
So when managers had more information
on who is likely to turn over,
they did better in terms of hiring
in terms of having lower turn over.
The thing that was more frightening
was that managers also had discretion.
So they got this advice but
they didn't have to follow it.
But what Mitch found was that when
they used their discretion more,
turnover was higher, and so I think
the most obvious interpretation of this
is algorithms are not great but
they're still better than we are.
You know we get back to Daniel Kahneman
carrying his log around, right?
The idea is that algorithms
are not perfect, we're worse.
And so there's huge potential in
this space for data analytics and
people analytics to improve
how we go about hiring.